---
published: false
title: Musings
layout: post
tags: [agile, test, refactoring]
categories: [code, design]
---

# FP & OO

A large aspect of writing large programs is to manage complexity.

OO has the 3 (or 4) 'pillars' - One of them is Encapsulation. The 2 definitions are:

1. Data hiding
2. Bundling behaviour and Data.

FP does quite the opposite - separating behaviour from data. 

"It is better to have 100 functions operate on one data structure than 10 functions on 10 data structures." —Alan Perlis

Because of immutability, FP isn't all too concerned about data hiding either.

FP still has different areas of code associated with different purposes - organised in different projects/name spaces/modules/files/types.

This is one of the big reasons I've seen OO code doesn't normally drift towards FP,
because of OO's need to "protect" and isolate code to manage complexity.

# Discovery, team size, project owners

## Consistency
  * Same architectural patterns leads to discover how data flows through systems and which systems to work on
  * Same coding style/patterns/conventions -> less time on learning esoteric differences, and you can leverage the framework of thought to locate where to make changes.

Specialization is still important. Without good organization or a system of discovery, without logical boundaries a system can become unwielding.

A good strategy is to plit up projects that become too large into smaller single purposed services.

It's the same kind of thinking in functions - Rich Hickey (TODO find & link talk) says to think in the small as we do in the large:

The way large systems are architected are usually with queues, and well defined boundries/purpose of systems.
Messages - like the original intent of OO to be how biological cells organize and communicate (TODO find reference)

# Naming things

Evident. Best place to start a name from, is from it's usage(s). That is, create it as it's consumed, as if by TDD generated. If something is built and named in isolation without usage, it's something within itself, without a place or meaning ~ which makes a naming it harder.


